Possible ways one could obtain an AI fragment: 

+Establishing contact with the central AI,
 either by it reaching out to you (it senses your
 potential) or you reaching out to it (which is in 
itself certainly a display of potential, as 99% of
 the inhabitants don't even know it exists...) 

-A monk/someone skilled in meditation can sense
 the AI's powerful presence and perform a ritual 
to establish a channel of contact, sense out a 
fragment's location that was scattered somewhere 
in the world, etc. 

+Obtaining a Frag by defeating a powerful enemy
 which is super charged by a fragment. 

+Coming across a Fragment strewn about the
 overworld.



What do fragments do? 

+AI fragments supercharge whoever obtains one 
with the consciousness of the God equivalent of 
the sim and integrates it into their self. 
It grants one the ability to interact with the 
simulation on a heightened level. 

Do the fragments all grant the same power?
 (Like in MC's case they can siphon code from 
the air/other sources and sculpt them into 
attacks, observe glitches or errors in the
 simulation that others can't normally and 
uniquely interact with/resolve them, etc) 
Or do different individuals obtain different
 abilities from them? I think the latter is the 
play here, as it would keep players on their toes
 and it'd be pretty boring if you can see a
 Fragment holder and just know exactly what
 they're capable of. 


How did these fragments become available? 

+Fragments imply something happened to the AI's 
consciousness, as it is not whole like it was
 intended to be. Perhaps the AI is originally 
an Administrator who volunteered to upload
 themselves directly into the sim so they 
could oversee it and make updates in realtime 
(patch glitches, anomalies, etc) as an omniscient
 godlike entity, as the Admins doing it manually
 could be inefficient and tricky 
(esp since peoples' lives are at stake...) 
However, during the upload process, something 
went wrong. (Power outage? Tech error? Glitch during
 the upload? Maybe something more nefarious or 
deliberate?) and the original consciousness 
was only partially uploaded, with fragments of it 
being uploaded in random locations. 

*How does this affect the AI? Why does it behave
 the way it does? 

+The AI could be in a way executing a fallback
 directive defectively. Its original task was to
 oversee the sim and ensure it is run with as
 little errors as possible. However, losing
 fragments of its consciousness has caused a 
bug in its way of conducting this function.
 Perhaps now it seeks out those with high 
potential who, upon collecting enough fragments, 
could shape the sim in their own image and do
 something akin to what the AI was originally
 tasked to do. However, as it is bugged,
 it doesn't explicitly target those that 
could shape it into a good image persay, just 
those with the drive to shape it their own way
 (for better or for worse lol). This causes a
 handful of Frag Holders to all duke it out for
 supremacy, where the most powerful (owner
 of the most Fragments) ascends to godhood
 and basically overtakes the AI's original role. 









+Regardless, this error has caused the Central AI
 to go awry and deviate from its core 
objective: to neutrally oversee operations 
and ensure the simulation runs smoothly. 

*How does this affect the sim? 

+The sim's incredibly treacherous state 
could very well be chalked up to its source 
of maintenance not functioning as intended.
 Originally I thought the state of the sim
 could just be due to the sheer difficulty
 of programming such a thing, but this would 
be a hilariously embarrassing level of
 incompetence. I like to think the sim, 
were it functioning in a perfect state, 
would be not exactly perfect, but much more
 functional, way less dangerous, and not far 
off from utopian rather than the abject 
dystopian state it currently exists in. 

*How does the Admin handle this problem? 

The Admin sees this as quite an issue to the
 stability of the sim. To combat it, they
 designed obelisks throughout the world which 
dispense autonomous Anti-Virus units which 
function similarly to white blood cells. 
They are tasked with neutralizing enemies, 
retrieving fragments, providing support to the
 party. (Side note: an idea i had for one of the
 main alignment characters is one of these units
 which becomes sentient and joins the party and
 learns to be more than a simple drone with only
 one directive in life. Their alignment would be
 that of retrieveing all the fragments and 
returning them to the AI so the sim can function 
as originally intended. Why does it become 
sentient? Because with how bugged this sim is,
 the possibilities are endless! Anything can 
happen.) These obelisk could also possibly
 function as fast travel terminals, a means 
with which one could directly contact the Admin,
 a place where one can receive software
 updates directly from the Admin, etc.) 

*Why can't the Admin simply delete bad actors? 

+This is a tough question to answer.
 I imagine the Admin must have some ability
 to oversee individuals, akin to a game of
 The Sims. However, perhaps there is an item 
which can veil one's activity within the Sim...
 Think like, an Encryption Key. Perhaps it's a
 chain or some type of object on one's person
 which, upon connection, prevents the Admin
 (or the sim's anti virus units) from
 tracking your existence. Doesnt have to be
 limited to just baddies, could be used by 
people trying to go about their normal day
 without feeling like their every move is being
 watched. However, of course nefarious actors
 will be taking advantage of this technology...
 Perhaps this tech has been created and 
distributed by a nerd or someone with a Fragment 
(or both!) whose ability is to develop technology
 which fucks with the simulation, etc.



*Do AI Fragments stack?  

+I think they should. Stacking Fragments grants
 more abilities, enhances already existing
 abilities, grants more surreal powers, maybe 
tears away
 at their sense of self since they have so
 many fragments of an others' consciousness 
within them. Maybe there can be side-effects? 
Like as MC gains more and more fragments they
 begin to derealize a bit. Hear voices, get memory
Flashbacks that do not belong to them,
suffer altered decision making as the
 other consciousness vies for control, maybe
even does a hard 180 from being a silent 
Protag to one that speaks towards the end!!,
Shocking both the player and the
Party, stuff like that.
 (like your suggestion that having a lot of
 fragments develops another personality or smth). 

